Power tools for your math mind

Math skills and understanding

Everything should be as simple as possible, but no simpler. -- Albert
Einstein

Do not seek to follow in the footsteps of the wise.  Seek what they
sought.  -- Matsuo Basho

Math does not need to be made easy.  It is already easy. -- Jaime Escalante

You can't always get what you want. -- The Rolling Stones

Sometimes, you get what you need. -- The Rolling Stones

Science is the belief in the ignorance of experts. -- Richard Feynman

Everything takes longer and costs more.

A man may imagine things that are false, but he can only understand
things that are true. -- Isaac Newton

How many legs does a dog have if you call the tail a leg?  Four.
Calling a tail a leg doesn't make it a leg.  -- Abraham Lincoln

I don't like that man. I must get to know him better. -- Abraham
Lincoln

No man is good enough to govern another man without that other's
consent. -- Abraham Lincoln

The past is never dead. It's not even past. -- William Faulkner

I never teach my pupils. I only attempt to provide the conditions
in which they can learn. -- Albert Einstein"

A sense of humor is part of the art of leadership, of getting along
with people, of getting things done. -- Dwight Eisenhower

All paid jobs absorb and degrade the mind. -- Aristotle

The law, in its majestic equality, forbids the rich as well as the poor
to sleep under bridges, to beg in the streets, and to steal bread. -- Anatole France

To punish me for my contempt for authority, fate made me
an authority myself. -- Albert Einstein

The one function TV news performs very well is that when there is no news
we give it to you with the same emphasis as if there were. -- David Brinkley

I can't understand it. I can't even understand the people
who can understand it. -- Queen Juliana

When I'm working on a problem, I never think about beauty.
I think only how to solve the problem. But when I have finished,
if the solution is not beautiful, I know it is wrong. -- Buckminster Fuller

Facts are stubborn things, but statistics are more pliable. -- Mark Twain

When I find myself in the company of scientists, I feel like a shabby curate who has strayed by mistake into a drawing room full of dukes. -- W H Auden

No opera plot can be sensible, for people do not sing when they are feeling sensible. -- W H Auden

It's a naïve domestic Burgundy without any breeding, but I think you'll be amused by its presumption. -- James Thurber

The universe ... cannot be understood unless one first learns
to comprehend the language in which it is written.
It is written in the language of mathematics.  -- Galileo Galilei

All positive integers are interesting. 
Proof: 
Assume the contrary. Then there is a least non-interesting positive integer.
but, hey, that's pretty interesting! A contradiction. 

Do not worry about your difficulties in Mathematics. I can assure you mine are still
greater.  -- Albert Einstein
