Mathtoys: Power tools for your math mind

Mathtoys: Math skills and reasoning

Everything should be as simple as possible, but no simpler. -- Albert
Einstein

Do not seek to follow in the footsteps of the wise.  Seek what they
sought.  -- Matsuo Basho

Calculus does not need to be made easy.  It is easy already. -- Jaime Escalante

Science is the belief in the ignorance of experts. -- Richard Feynman

A man may imagine things that are false, but he can only understand
things that are true. -- Isaac Newton

How many legs does a dog have if you call the tail a leg?  Four.
Calling a tail a leg doesn't make it a leg.  -- Abraham Lincoln

I don't like that man. I must get to know him better. -- Abraham
Lincoln

The past is never dead. It's not even past. -- William Faulkner

A sense of humor is part of the art of leadership, of getting along
with people, of getting things done. -- Dwight Eisenhower

The law, in its majestic equality, forbids the rich as well as the
poor to sleep under bridges, to beg in the streets, and to steal
bread. -- Anatole France

To punish me for my contempt for authority, fate made me
an authority myself. -- Albert Einstein

The one function TV news performs very well is that when there is no news
we give it to you with the same emphasis as if there were. -- David Brinkley

I can't understand it. I can't even understand the people
who can understand it. -- Queen Juliana of the Netherlands

When I'm working on a problem, I never think about beauty.
I think only how to solve the problem. But when I have finished,
if the solution is not beautiful, I know it is wrong. -- Buckminster Fuller

Facts are stubborn things, but statistics are more pliable. -- Mark Twain

When I find myself in the company of scientists, I feel like a shabby curate
who has strayed by mistake into a drawing room full of dukes. -- W H Auden

No opera plot can be sensible, for people do not sing
when they are feeling sensible. -- W H Auden

The universe ... cannot be understood unless one first learns
to comprehend the language in which it is written.
It is written in the language of mathematics.  -- Galileo Galilei

All positive integers are interesting. 
Proof: 
Assume the contrary. Then there is a least non-interesting positive integer.
but, hey, that's pretty interesting! A contradiction. 

Do not worry about your difficulties in Mathematics. I can assure you mine are still
greater.  -- Albert Einstein

You've got to be very careful if you don't know where you are going,
because you might not get there. -- Yogi Berra

It's tough to make predictions, especially about the future. -- Yogi Berra

Nearly everything is really interesting if you go into it deeply
enough. -- Richard Feynman

People who like this sort of thing will find this the sort of thing they like.
-- Artemus Ward

Logic is justly considered the basis of all other sciences, even if only
for the reason that in every argument we employ concepts taken from
the field of logic, and that every correct inference proceeds
in accordance with its laws. -- Alfred Tarski

It is impossible to make anything truly foolproof because
fools are so ingenious. -- Anonymous

I shall try to correct errors when shown to be errors; and I shall adopt new views
so fast as they shall appear to be true views. -- Abraham Lincoln

The smallest natural number not definable by nine words is definable by nine words.
-- Jules Richard

The scientific man does not aim at an immediate result.  . . .
His work is like that of the planter -- for the future.
His duty is to lay the foundation for those who are to come,
and point the way. -- Nikola Tesla

Believe all you hear. Your world may not be a better one than the one the
blocks live in but it’ll be a sight more vivid. -- Chad Mulligan, in
"Stand on Zanzibar"

Virtually nothing from the last three hundred years has found its way
into the classroom.  Yet most of the mathematics used in today's world
was developed in the last two hundred years, let alone the last three
hundred. -- Keith Devlin, "Introduction to Mathematical Thinking"

Human history becomes more and more a race between education and
catastrophe.  -- H. G. Wells, "Outline of History" p. 504

Again I saw that under the sun the race is not to the swift,
nor the battle to the strong, nor bread to the wise,
nor riches to the intelligent, nor favor to those with knowledge,
but time and chance happen to them all. -- Ecclesiastes 9:11

The race is not always to the swift, nor the battle to the strong,
but that's the way to bet. -- Damon Runyon

No wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise. -- The Mock Turtle,
"Alice in Wonderland"

Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice
of the people? Is there any better or equal hope in the world? --
Abraham Lincoln

Always do right. This will gratify some people and astonish the rest.
-- Mark Twain

There is more simplicity in the man who eats caviar on impulse than
in the man who eats grape-nuts on principle.  -- G. K. Chesterton

The miracle of the appropriateness of the language of mathematics for
the formulation of the laws of physics is a wonderful gift which we
neither understand nor deserve. We should be grateful for it and hope
that it will remain valid in future research and that it will extend
to ...  wide branches of learning. -- Eugene Wigner
